PBM-1546 Redesigned the Storage section (#280)
percona/pbm-docs: docs/details/s3-storage.md

# S3-compatible storage

> Percona Backup for MongoDB should work with other S3-compatible storages, but was only tested with the following ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Percona Backup for MongoDB (PBM) works with AWS S3 and other S3-compatible storage services. We test PBM with the following services:
```

   
=== ":material-google-cloud: Google Cloud Storage"

    1. Install and configure the [gcloud CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)

    2. Create a bucket

        ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
        $ gcloud storage buckets create my-gcs-bucket --location=US
        ```
      
    3. Verify the bucket creation

        ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
        $ gcloud storage buckets list
        ```
        
=== ":simple-minio: MinIo"

    1. Install a [MinIO client :octicons-link-external-16:](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/reference/minio-mc.html#install-mc). After the installation, the `mc` is available for you.

    2. Configure the `mc` command line tool with a MinIO Server

        ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
        $ mc alias set myminio http://127.0.0.1:9000 MINIO_ACCESS_KEY MINIO_SECRET_KEY
        ```
    
    3. Create a bucket

        ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
        $ mc mb myminio/my-minio-bucket
        ```
      
    4. Verify the bucket creation

        ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
        $ mc ls myminio
        ```

After the bucket is created, apply the proper [permissions for PBM to use the bucket](storage-configuration.md#permissions-setup).

> ## Server-side encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using server-side encryption with AWS KMS keys (SSE-KMS)
```

Percona Backup for MongoDB supports [server-side encryption](../reference/glossary.md#server-side-encryption) for [S3 buckets](../reference/glossary.md#bucket) with the following encryption types:

* customer-provided keys stored in AWS KMS (SSE-KMS)
* customer-provided keys stored on the client side (SSE-C)
* Amazon S3 managed encryption keys (SSE-S3)

> ### SSE-KMS encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using AWS KMS keys (SSE-KMS)
```

Author: Fixed

!!! admonition "Version added: [1.3.2](../release-notes/1.3.2.md)" 

To use the SSE-KMS encryption, specify the following parameters in the Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration file: 

```yaml
serverSideEncryption:
   kmsKeyID: <kms_key_ID>
   sseAlgorithm: aws:kms
```  

> ### SSE-C encryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customer-provided keys (SSE-C)
```

Percona Backup for MongoDB also supports server-side encryption with customer-provided keys that are stored on the client side (SSE-C). Percona Backup for MongoDB provides the encryption keys as part of the requests to the S3 storage. The S3 storage uses them to encrypt/decrypt the data using the `AES-256` encryption algorithm. In such a way you save on subscribing to AWS KMS services and can use the server-side encryption with the S3-compatible storage of your choice.

!!! warning

    1. Enable/disable the server-side encryption only for the empty bucket. Otherwise, Percona Backup for MongoDB fails to save/retrieve objects to/from the storage properly.
    2. S3 storage doesn't manage or store the encryption key. It is your responsibility to track what key was used to encrypt what object in the bucket. If you lose the key, any request for an object without the encryption key fails and you lose the object. 

To use the SSE-C encryption, specify the following parameters in the Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration file:    

```yaml
serverSideEncryption:
  sseCustomerAlgorithm: AES256
  sseCustomerKey: <your_encryption_key>
``` 

> ### SSE-S3 encryption

Author: Fixed

!!! admonition "Version added: [2.6.0](../release-notes/2.6.0.md)" 

> Percona Backup for MongoDB supports server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3), the default encryption method in Amazon AWS. All new objects added to an S3 bucket are automatically encrypted without impacting performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Percona Backup for MongoDB supports server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3), the default encryption method in Amazon AWS S3. Amazon S3 encrypts each object with a unique key. As an additional safeguard, it encrypts the key itself with a key that it rotates regularly. Amazon S3 server-side encryption uses 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard Galois/Counter Mode (AES-GCM) to encrypt all uploaded objects.
```

To use SSE-S3 encryption, specify the following parameters in the Percona Backup for the MongoDB configuration file:

```yaml
serverSideEncryption:
   sseAlgorithm: AES256
```  

> ## Support for multiple endpoints to the same S3 storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multiple endpoints to the same S3 storage
```

Author: Fixed

      ...
```

You can define the specific nodes for the `endpointUrlMap` parameter. Not listed nodes use the URL defined for the `endpointUrl` parameter. 

For the solution to work, you should also have the mapping mechanism in place. This mechanism should be able to map the custom endpoint URLs to the main endpoint URL of the storage, routing the requests from `pbm-agents` to the storage and back seamlessly.

With this ability to control the endpoints for `pbm-agents` to reach the same storage, you reduce the administrative overhead on PBM configuration and ensure its proper functioning. 

## Debug logging

!!! admonition "Version added: [1.7.0](../release-notes/1.7.0.md)" 

You can enable debug logging for different types of S3 requests in Percona Backup for MongoDB. Percona Backup for MongoDB prints S3 log messages in the `pbm logs` output so that you can debug and diagnose S3 request issues or failures.

To enable S3 debug logging, set the `storage.s3.DebugLogLevel` option in Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration. The supported values are: `LogDebug`, `Signing`, `HTTPBody`, `RequestRetries`, `RequestErrors`, `EventStreamBody`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See an example below:

```
storage:
    type: s3
    s3:
       DebugLogLevel: LogDebug
    ...
```
```

Reviewer: ```yaml
storage:
    type: s3
    s3:
       DebugLogLevel: LogDebug
    ...
```

Author: This will change with the migration to new AWS SDK. I suggest adding an example with a new value

## Storage classes 

!!! admonition "Version added: [1.7.0](../release-notes/1.7.0.md)" 

Percona Backup for MongoDB supports [Amazon S3 storage classes :octicons-link-external-16:](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/). Knowing your data access patterns, you can set the S3 storage class in Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration. When Percona Backup for MongoDB uploads data to S3, the data is distributed to the corresponding storage class. The support of S3 bucket storage types allows you to effectively manage S3 storage space and costs.

To set the storage class, specify the `storage.s3.storageClass` option in Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration file:

```yaml
storage:
  type: s3
  s3:
    storageClass: INTELLIGENT_TIERING
```

When the option is undefined, the S3 Standard (`STANDARD`) storage type is used.

> ## Configure upload retries 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload retries 
```

!!! admonition "Version added: [1.7.0](../release-notes/1.7.0.md)" 

You can set up the number of attempts for Percona Backup for MongoDB to upload data to S3 storage as well as the min and max time to wait for the next retry. Set the options `storage.s3.retryer.numMaxRetries`, `storage.s3.retryer.minRetryDelay` and `storage.s3.retryer.maxRetryDelay` in Percona Backup for MongoDB configuration.

```yaml
retryer:
  numMaxRetries: 3
  minRetryDelay: 30
  maxRetryDelay: 5
```

This upload retry increases the chances of data upload completion in cases of unstable connection.

> #### Data upload for storage with self-issued TLS certificates

Author: Fixed

# AWS or S3-compatible storage

> Percona Backup for MongoDB (PBM) works with AWS S3 and other S3-compatible storage services. We test PBM with the following services:

Reviewer: We don't test Azure storage? @sandraromanchenko ?

Reviewer 2: We do, I guess we just didn't modify the doc

Author: But Azure is a separate one, not s3 compatible. So it makes little sense to mention it on this page

Reviewer: OK. Agree.
